So I ready. I mean, let's let's.
Before I start, I just wanted
to give me some feedback that
you have the focus to the.
Class and the slides so I can start.
Thank you man.
Thank you
Great thank you, Ben.
Matthew Michael  thank
you so seems everybody has the focus.
So let's start.
So we said that so far.
Uh, we are passing
through this digital Odyssey.
So we said that.
We know numbering system.
We know logic circuits or logic
gates and then we design some
circuits by the sum of midterms,
product of maxterms and
simplify them and etc.
So today we are going to be in this
step again for about another week.
So in two weeks and then we
we are gradually move toward
building a computer system.
So all these were just I
mean prior knowledge or.
Prior steps toward the
building in operating system.
A computer system that does the
calculation so from the last week's lecture,
we said that we minimize using the
algebra and then we said that algebra
is not very good approach to minimize
a Boolean function that has more than 4,
three, or four variables.
A lot of terms and said we
said that Morris Karnaugh
Propose a graphical.
Approach to minimization and
then we start with one variable,
two variables.
I just wanted to quickly pass with
this slide three variable K-Maps.
And then finally.
four variable karnaugh map
One thing is that we said
that by using the Karnaugh map,
not only we can design the product
some of midterms, but also we can
design the product of maxterms.
So and also the mean terms,
the order of the minterms in the map matters,
so we have to practice a lot in
order to make it part of our
mind that this is the order.
0123456789 ten 11-12, thirteen 1415.
So this is the this is the
way we do this from here.
And then from here.
And they found seven to go to
here 8 and etc usually are in.
In this course we are using the
Karnaugh map until four variables
and so there is one thing that.
So this is the road map for minterms.
And whenever we are, we are asked to
design A circuit by the sum of midterms.
So basically for these midterms
we make it 1 in the cells.
And for the remaining items,
we make it 0, so it's another
representation of the truth table.
But this way we can minimize by
creating regions or adjusting
cells based on the powers of two.
And if you have a region of two variables,
it removed one variable.
If we have regional four,
it removes two variables and then 8
three variables and then the whole.
If all the regions are one,
it removes 2 to the power of 4 or 16,
which is 4 variables gonna removed and
this is the order that we put the.
Variables so XY.
The lowest bind significant
binary values goes to the column.
Z and W to higher significant binary
variables goes to the row wise,
and based on this order we have the minterms
We said that we can design the
same circuit by.
By product of Maxim.
So if you change it to product.
So we already know that whatever is not in
the mid term is gonna be in the maximum,
so we have the maximum free.
7. 15 and 11.
So these are the Max terms
that are not in the mid term.
So basically this and then.
We can assume that we are writing for F4,
so this is F.
Based on the Max terms,
we said that we can assume sorry I have to.
So we can assume that we are
in order to have a product of
maxterms by using the K map.
To minimize that, we can assume
that we are writing for F4.
So if we do F4,
all these ones become zero.
If we make it F4. Make note of an.
All these zeroes becomes one.
Oh, also, this is gonna be 1.
And then we can write. I mean,
we can minimize as we do in the normal.
I mean Boolean function so.
We have this region here and also we
have this region here and then, uh,
we write them so for the first region we have
XY and the value of the NW doesn't matter,
so we have X here while here.
Also, for this second region,
here we have the value of X,
doesn't matter because it is either zero
or one Y must be one, and here's ibor W.
So it becomes Y.
Zibar W so I just wanted to make
an example then this. This is 4.
Uh, sorry here we have or this is for F bar,
so if you apply another not.
It becomes F.
This is the way that we minimize
based on the product of maxterms.
So we already set this and
here is the example.
So based on the maxterms.
I assume that you are minimizing
for F4 followed by the not.
And we said that it's a tourist for four
variable and we practice on a sample.
A circuit, but we left we had,
I mean two a few slides left so
from 4 variables to five variables.
We have this karnaugh map so XYZW these four.
Gonna be a of 1 four variable column
app but when we add another variable,
the 5th variable in a higher position,
for instance T then this is the way
we show this five variable Karnaugh
So basically this is the when the T
is zero and this is the when the T
is 1 and it's kind of 3D karnaugh map.
And as an example,
if we have the Boolean function FTW.
See this one yx as this midterm or
this matter. So this is the midterm.
As you can see. T bar. WZ Bar W an expert.
So this is the midterm 10 because the
binary number for this the decimal number
for this point in number is 10 for this one.
Yeah, if you map this point in
number to decimal it becomes 26.
So where these two midterms in the 5th,
five variable Karnaugh map?
So as you can see here, all these
meetings that he is 0 is from zero 123,
exactly the same as four variable karma.
But when you move to the Wendy, T is 1.
So all these midterms has one in the TI.
So basically 0 is not zero anymore so it is.
T is one XY0W Z is 0,
so it becomes this this mid term is 1 zero.
0000, which is the mid term.
16 So this is 16. This midterm is.
1004 WZ and 014 XY. Which is 17.
So 1617 and then goes here.
This is a 1819 and etc.
So, but usually they show like this
because I we basically says that this
is the exact for variable comma,
but the T is 1.
So if you map all these midterms to
the original value of the midterms,
20 is 1, so it becomes a. For instance.
Here is this because midterm,
uh, so this is midterm 16.
17 This is a teen. This is 19.
20 an etc. So for our example,
where is the midterm 10 midterm turn is here?
Midterm 26, midterm 26.
As you can see here. Has 1010 for the WZXY,
which is mid term 10 with T equal to 1.
So mid term term is here T0 and when
he becomes one return 1020 is 1.
So this is the meter.
26 So basically T is 1. And then.
WC and then XY.
So this is the exact mid term here and
then when you want to minimize that,
we have to consider this as a 3D
cube that have adjacent cells.
So this is the minimization,
so we can make this adjustment or region
so the region right now is not 2D,
they are 3D regions,
so it's basically it's a cube or cylinder.
Oh no problem are you that's fine.
So this is the way we minimize the.
A Boolean function with five variable
using the five variable color map so
their regions are all 3D regions.
But imagine now we want to
move to the six variable.
So how about 6 variable Karnaugh map
How about 7 variable Karnaugh map etc.
So you have to move to higher dimensions,
for instance to four Dimension
5 dimensional space.
But we know that I mean the only thing.
Uh, we can represent or we can show is
at most 3D Diamond 3 dimensional space,
so up until five variable.
And the main of the main advantage of
the Karma was because it was graphical.
But just by visualizing the
truth table in another way,
we can minimize and create regions if
we move to more than 3 dimensions.
So we cannot visualize that space
as a result not helpful anymore.
So that's why we say that karnaugh map,
although an abstract mathematic definition,
you can minimize N variable.
But because it's a graphical method
and we have to visualize that.
We can only visualize up until 3
dimensional space and this is a limit
up until five variable car map.
As you can see here,
up until five variable karnaugh map through
3 dimensional space.
If we move to the six variable,
we need another dimension which is
4 dimensional space and we cannot
visualize that anymore.
So it's not helpful anymore.
So as a result,
we need a better approach which
was proposed by Quine.
As you can see here in the left
side Williard Van Orman Quine.
He was a famous philosopher,
and that's amazing,
because if philosopher proposed a
method for a minimize addition of
the Boolean variables and my question
from you is that why a philosopher?
I can help us to minimize a Boolean function.
Do you have any idea why
philosopher can help?
I mean building computer systems.
Kelly says that smart.
You can ask about Tatiana is
close logic correct? Philip?
Yes, Tatiana Flip is correct.
They are correct.
The reason is that we said the binary
system actually the main origin
was the logic Ann George Poole.
He was a philosopher an he propose a
Boolean system to verify a statement.
Whether this statement is true or false,
and the philosophy is kind of a science of,
I mean. Putting a true or false
judgement about the statements.
So that's why philosopher actually
helps the binary system a lot.
So that's why I mean Quine.
Proposed this method that's
from philosophy and logic.
But later.
The McCluskey, he was an engineer,
electrical engineer and so
he was kind of like Shannon.
He was an engineer mathematician
and he said that let's try to
write an algorithm for the Quina
method of minimizing the Boolean
logic and he or I mean extend this.
Method An propose an algorithm that
today we call it Quine McCluskey
algorithm and another amazing
is that as you can see here.
He was working at Bell Library as is.
As you remember,
the Shannon was also working for Bell Vibe.
I'm in lab so you see,
these are the great Labs that I mean,
make a huge contribution to
building computer systems.
So what is?
You can read more about the Queen
McCluskey history and the way
they actually if the algorithm
evolved so as you can see here,
the main algorithm was way more old and
in 1878 the origin of the algorithm
was and you see that's where way old.
But it helped us today
to build a huge I mean.
Uh computer systems.
So let's try this algorithm.
So I already opened the link.
If you open the link at home.
There is a on line implementation of the
algorithm that it's very helpful for you.
So imagine we have free binary variables
and these are the midterms that becomes one.
For instance this one.
And this one also, this one and this one.
So by using the three variables in the input,
the only output function Y
becoms minimize like this.
You see here,
this is the minimal Boolean expression.
So X1 Bar X2 bar.
4X1X2 so intent in the Boolean or in
the language of logic or philosophy.
This is or.
An and is the reverse one,
so and is like this and this is or.
And this is the minimized version,
so if you change it for instance to here.
All the midterms or one,
so using the economy for free variable
it becomes one and also you can see
here that this is the minimal approach.
Why is 1? So let's see for instance, if we
move to the eight variable Karnaugh map,
this is the eight variable column out.
Imagine that you want to minimize
it using a Boolean algebra.
This is the huge truth table you can see.
And also imagine that you want to use the.
For instance Connor map.
How can you represent or visualize these true
stable using 5 dimensional space an etc.
So, but this algorithm,
for instance, we have midterm,
this one is 1 and this one and this one.
And this this an etc.
So you can simply use the midterms.
That makes it one in the output.
And this algorithm outputs.
This minimized Boolean function.
Based on the aesopi,
so these are ants or products and
these are over so sum of products.
So you can add more midterms.
And as a result you have more minimizations.
And you see, it's pretty much fast.
You know there's no. A big time.
You have to wait in order.
Minimize the Boolean function.
So at the exam, or in any practical sense,
you can check your minimization using
this online website that you end up
with the correct minimized form.
And the amazing thing about this.
Algorithm is that.
After the minimization,
it is proved that you cannot
minimize the Boolean expression more.
That's the minimal form.
Any questions?
No questions, so there is another
topic about the economy which
is about don't care condition,
so I'm going to explain this
topic in the new lecture.
So you already have these slides,
but today I'm going to explain
this in another example that we
face don't care condition an.
I'll explain that so.
That's it, let's move on
to the next new topic.
Oh my God, I don't know I cannot stop.
OK.
So I'm going to new starting new topic.
If you have any question,
I'm ready to take your questions.
So sometimes there's no question so.
Um, so far we can say that we have
everything ready to design any circuits.
So we know the numbering system.
We know the gates, we know how to design
a system based on the truth table.
We know how to minimize the Boolean function.
This on the algebra Boolean algebra
based on if you have more variables
based on the karnaugh map, an if you have,
for instance, six or seven variables,
we can minimize it using the
Queen Mccoin McCluskey algorithm.
So we have everything ready.
To design any possible circuits,
or this is all systems so,
but we have to move toward
building a computer system.
So let's take this trip.
So we are in our Odyssey.
We have all the available
tools to minimize any circuit.
But let's design only the circus that is
needed that are needed for computer systems.
So from now on we want to focus on some, um.
Important digital units.
Although we can design any circuits,
but there are some circuits that
are important for computer systems,
so we want to analyze them a little bit more.
So. All types of binary circuits.
Sorry,
all digital circuits.
Or logic circuits can be divided into
2 main categories, combinational
circuits or sequential circuits.
So what are these circuits?
The combination of circuit or
combination logic which we already
know how they are. They are.
This is the chapter four of the book.
These are the circuits
that they have some inputs.
And they have some outputs.
An inside the circuit we
have some levels of gate.
So for instance we have the
first or all ends and the second
are ors for instance.
Or if they are product of Max Max terms,
the first or or or and the
second is 1 final end.
Also, we can use other gates,
for instance exclusive or exclusive noran,
etc.
Whatever circuit we designed so far
or type of combinational logic.
Let me just just.
OK, so. There is another type of
circuits that we haven't studied,
and basically those circuits
allow you to attach one or more
of the outputs to the input.
We haven't discussed it yet,
but we will discuss it.
I mean, in the next few weeks,
but for now we just wanted to
focus on a combination of circuits
or whatever we design so for her.
But those that are important
for computer systems,
so this is a huge difference between
the these two type of circuits.
The combination circuits we have input
and output and the sequential circuits or.
Those that are not combination,
which basically allows you
attach the output to the input.
But we want to focus on the combination
logic and the combination logic.
As you can see here.
There's a property.
For them,
and that property is this when you
provide the value in the input,
you have the output after just if
way for two levels or three levels
of gates you can see the output,
so the outputs are just after
providing the input to the
input binary variables.
So here is an example if I want
to show a very simple circuit,
like an ad within the time.
So imagine we design A most
simplest circuit that has only one
and and two input variables and
there's only one output variable.
So this is a I can draw a truth table by
only two variables and this is the end,
so that's the most simple
circuit we designed so far.
So let's see what happens within the time.
If I provide the value of 1.
One in the X. So one is here.
So in the Y and also the value
of X in the input of the and.
So as you can see here,
up until this time.
Why is 1X is 1 so as a result,
if you want to see the output of F,
Apple dot F will be one.
Up until here. However,
at this time, why drops to 0?
Up until this this moment. But X is 0,
so we have Y zero and then X is 1 so.
Because the input changes
the output gonna change,
so the input is now is zero and then X is 1.
So zero and with one becomes 0,
so the F drops to one drops to 0, sorry.
Up until this time.
And now we move on here X drop to
0 so we have 0 here we have zero
in the Y, so as long as we have
X&Y zero up until this moment.
The output stays at 0.
An etc. So you see that.
As long as the value of input changes,
the output changes right away.
So here is the full algorithm.
The timeline for this circuit.
So if YNX is both one.
The output is stays as one.
If one of the input changes,
for instance here.
The wide changes from one to zero after
a little bit delaye because we have to
see what happens inside the and gate.
So XP is still one.
But why drops to 0?
So after some time it takes
time to see the output of the F.
So this is we call this
time dilay or gates delay.
After that the F drops to 0.
And then for instance, at this moment.
You see here why is 1X is 1,
so F is 1, but suddenly Y drops to 0.
So now if we have zero in the YX is
1 and as a result the F drops to 0.
So this is the property
of combinational logic.
Whenever the input changes based on the
gates in between the input and the output,
the output changes after some deley or gap.
In this course,
we assume that the gates are ideal.
There is no delay and right
away after we change the input,
the output actually gonna be changed.
So the Delta T or the gate the delay is.
We assume that zero,
but in practice is not zero.
But I just put this diagram here
to show you that this is the
main property of the combination,
all circuits or whatever second
we design so far.
If you change the input you
see the change accordingly.
So as I said, but in the other
type of circuit, which is,
we call this sequential logic that a
little bit different that we gonna study.
I mean in the next weeks,
but so far we designed circuits that are
combinational and the main properties
that if you change the input you see
the change in the output right away.
And here is the design steps
that we followed so far.
So you already know these steps
and you pass the midterm exam,
so you already know these
steps for any circuit.
That we know we call it combinational
because it's a combination of circuits,
will gates.
We designed the truth table.
We have input outputs.
We pick it variable name for them,
ABC for the inputs F1F2 or XYZ in the output,
and then we write the Boolean
function for the output.
For those makes it 1 mid terms for
those makes 0 Max terms and then we
minimize it algebraically or came up.
Or if you have more variables we can
use the Queen Queen McCluskey algorithm.
And then after that we design this
circuit or we sketched or draw the 2nd.
We already know these steps.
But let's focus more on the combination
of circuits we can split or categorize
their combinational circuits that are
beneficial for building a computer
system into three main categories.
These are just a our own category,
so just to make it that,
I mean these are the 2nd that
useful for some operations and
these are for other operations etc.
So this is a kind of abstract
categorization of the circuits.
Whatever combination,
circuit or circuit we designed to
do arithmetic or logical operation,
we put it in this category.
So usually we call them the
circuits that are for arithmetic
logic operations or units, so ALU.
There are some logic circuits that are
helpful for transferring information,
so we call them.
I mean in this category data
transmission circuits.
And there are other parts that they do
coding and we call them the circuits
that do coding or coders and we put this.
We've put them in this category.
So in today we I mean this week and
today and next lecture we gonna focus
on these circuits in these categories.
But all are.
Combinational circuit an all are based on
the design of the S4P or design of a POS.
So these are just a special type of circuits.
So let's start with these categories.
These are the circuits that we're
going to study in this course.
There are a lot, but these are the
samples of them that we want to teach.
In this course, we start with the coders.
Today and we continue with the arithmetic
units and the other transmission units.
So you see that we gradually wants to
build parts of the computer systems
and then put them together as a whole.
So the first part is,
coders are what are coders?
So any questions so far?
No questions.
OK, So what is coding and we'll see what's
the benefit of designing some circuits
that do coding for a computer system?
So coding is basically this and mapping
within an object to another object.
So if you have an object A.
And we if you assign another object be
whenever we see a we call this encoding.
So a an code to be. That's high.
Abstract definition of coding.
If you go from another way.
If you see B which is the encoded
version of A and then you want to
encode it back to the original thing
or Angel object because it decoding.
So encoding. From A to B.
Decoding from B2A. So.
Whatever we are doing from
since A to B or B to a recall.
Coding so coding at the at
the first step we encoding.
We have encoding at the second
step from the other way around.
We call it decoding.
But if you don't know,
I mean at what is that we are?
Because we can simply say
we are doing coding.
You did the coding, uh,
this mapping between A and B&B
2A is based on a math formula.
For instance,
all the conversions we did in
the numbering system can be
seen as the coding system.
So whenever we see a number X.
In a radix system R,
and then we bring it to
another number ex prime.
In another numbering system are prime.
We actually doing a coding so we code X.
We encode X to X prime in another system.
So for instance,
if you are in base 10 and we
want to bring it to base five,
what we done we've done was that
basically we use that formula,
so we bring.
We divided the number by 5 multiple times
for the integer part for the fraction part,
we multiply by 5 and etc.
You know the algorithm already.
Also,
whenever we see X prime in a base or prime,
we can bring it back to the base R.
You know this conversion again,
so all the numbering conversion systems
are type of encoding and decoding.
But sometimes there is no math involved.
Sometimes they say that there is
a table and based on this table
or look up table you have to do
the mapping such as in base 64.
So in the six base 64 you know that
for instance for the digit zero,
what is the code for that?
An if you see that code,
you interpret it as the symbol for zero,
for instance.
For instance, in if in you are in base.
16 An if you see 10 you bring
it to the code A.
And if you see a you bring
it to the integer value 10.
So this is a kind of again coding
from one system to another system.
Sometimes the coding is bad
engineering that we see today,
but all are type of I mean coding.
Sometimes coding is not two way.
We can only code one way,
so we call them one way coding.
So you can only bring an object
to another object by the encoding,
but there is no way you bring it
back P to its original thing or
there is no way to decode that.
Can you give me some example
of one way coding?
Anybody? I had heard
about the one way coding.
Nobody so you know, one of the famous
one way coding is called hashing.
For instance the there are
different hashing methods,
so let me give you an idea.
For instance, you can simply search hashing.
Methods. These are the hashing.
Let me show you hashing.
In cryptography.
The different functions and a 5S HA one
you may hear about these hashing codes.
The idea is that. For instance,
if you sign up in a website online
website and you put a password there.
So if you put the password,
all the developers of that
software may see your password.
So as a result, you usually use the
same password for your online banking
for your student website and etc.
So if I'm a developer of the
student website and I see your
password in this student website,
I can use your password.
For your I mean to hack your
online banking and I mean basically
have your all your money.
But The thing is that there are
some methods that they do code your
password such that even the software
developer for the Dad Online website,
for instance that student website although.
He seized coded version of your password,
but that's developer cannot decode your
password and see the actual password,
so these are the one way coding method
to code your password in such a way
that there is no way from the coded
version to the original password.
As a result,
all the developers of the online
website cannot see your password.
So yes, kind of.
Correct,
yeah?
Oh, one thing is that there are,
so I leave it to you to
read about one way coding.
So these are one application
of the one way coding.
There is a in the course algorithm,
or there's another course cryptography.
In that course they studied
this type of coding's a lot.
But usually the coding that
we study in this course.
There are two way codings.
Basically it means that.
You called A to B and also
there's an algorithm that use
decode from B to A and the most
simplest approaches look up table.
So for instance in base 64
here is the look up table.
So basically they say
that whenever you see V.
Bring it back, bring it or
encoded the optic V 221.
Whenever you see 21 decoded to the digit V,
so this is the most simplest coding two way
coding from one object to another object.
So I have some question.
Connor says that a student website
will not be using MD5 or is it 1?
I know about the end, uh,
I'm not sure why you say that, uh?
I have something in my mind,
but not because sometimes
a MD5 is proven to be.
Uh, actually they crack that.
So basically it is proved after awhile.
I mean after some time that they
prove that MD 5 is not one way.
So there is a way to bring it
back so we can call call it.
Break the one way coding,
so sometimes you claim that my
coding is one way but somebody.
If they find away from us to decode,
it means that your one way
coding actually breaks.
So MD5 is proven to be not a reliable one.
Way 11 way coding in that
sense counter is correct.
Ehsan says that random keys,
some of the coding includes
some randomness, yes,
but it's not the you can read
about that in the algorithm cores
or in the cryptography course.
Connor says no, it's definitely.
You could define it in terms
of encrypting fixed either
with the important. I yes.
Connor says that some of the
codings include randomness,
but some of them they are there.
No randomness in between, so.
And Connor says.
A boot force, but brute
force actually takes time,
but Connor is right, yes. Yeah.
So, but in this course we just wanted
to study the most simplest one.
So just two way coding.
We know the coding, encoding and decoding.
Let's see what are an example?
Is base 64 or all the conversions
we did for the numbering system or
basically a sample the they were
samples of the two way coding.
But today we want to introduce
a special type of codings or two
encoding called binary codes.
So the binary codes are basically
comes from this idea.
That is it possible to assign a binary
number to any object or anything
whether that thing is a number or
whether they think is an object.
For instance,
a table or a monitor or whatever,
and the idea is that let's do this
based on the idea of the look up table.
The most simplest way to
do it two way coding.
So we want to assign binary numbers
to anything because in the computer
system we're building a binary system.
So if the computer systems wants to analyze.
Any type of information about
anything in the world,
you have to assign binary numbers
first in order to represent it in the
computer system and then analyze them.
That's why we need this type of coders.
So.
The most simplest coding algorithm is
called binary coded decimal or BCD,
so binary coded decimal.
In the binary coded decimal it is
very similar to the binary number.
But,
and this is the value or
significance of this position,
basically it has four positions.
The first position has a significance
of one or two to the power of 0.
The second position 2 to the power
of 1/3 to the power of two and the
last 1-2 to the power of three.
So as you can see here,
this is very similar to the
binary number we did so far.
But there is a subtle difference between
the binary number we did so far and the BCD,
and you'll see that and what
this coding is does.
Does is basically assign binary
number to decimal digits.
So you might say that that's we
already know how to do that.
That's a very simple as coding,
so we just wanted to introduce it.
And then later we want to
introduce more complex one.
And this is the look up table.
So we know that we don't need this
look up table because we know how
to convert 0 to 9 to binary number.
So zero goes to 012 goes to this
number 2 this number up until 9.
So we already know that this
is the binary number 49.
The difference is starts from here.
What if we move on to 10?
If we move on to 10,
we know that the binary #410 is.
What is the binary number for the 10?
Anybody you have to be very quick.
What's the binary?
Yes, everybody knows that so 1010.
Then we moved to eleven 1011.
So these are the binary numbers
based on the rate based on
the radix system conversion,
but for the big city there's a difference.
They say that.
We just called the digits of decimal.
We don't code more than one digits,
so if I see the decimal number 10,
instead of putting the
binary number for that.
You don't do this.
We do this.
We bring each digit to its own code.
And then put them together.
So as a result, 10 becomes
the code for one the code 40.
16 is not the binary number, this one.
In the BCD 16 is the binary code
for one and the binary code 46.
That's the BCD coding way.
23 is not the binary number of this number.
The BCD or binary code for
the 23 is the binary code 4,
two and the binary code 43.
So that's why we call it binary code.
Code not binary number,
binary code and binary number
are equal as long as we have only
one digit in the decimal system.
However, if we move to more
than one digit decimal system.
We, the binary code assigns for each digit,
assigns a code instead of just bring it
to the binary number by the algorithm
by the calculation we already know.
So that's the difference between
binary code and binary number.
So as an example,
if I have 185 in decimal system.
What would be the binary code
for this number, anybody?
And what would be the binary number for that?
Yes, as a son says.
So basically binary code is basically
says that try to put the binary
code for each digit, so for one.
This is the binary code for one.
Binary code 48.
As long as we have one digit,
the binary code is equal to binary number.
This is the 8.
And then binary code 45.
And we put them together,
which becomes there.
So this is the binary code for 185.
However, what is the binary number?
The binary number is based on our.
Both of you have to divide it by two because
we have to convert it to the base two.
We already know the algorithm.
We divide by two and put their
remainder in the reverse order.
So as a result,
this is the binary number and this
is the binary code for that number.
So we have two coding algorithm,
one coding algorithm based on
the binary number radix system.
One way is based on the binary
code binary coded decimal,
which is the look up table we already saw.
So what are other binary codes?
So now we wanted to do more binary codes.
These are the binary codes,
so Tatiana asks so we can consider like.
New naming 4 digits in Radix 10.
Correct, yeah, yes, yes.
But The thing is that we cannot consider
them as a rating system because the
rating system is based on that formulation
that we introduced in the first chapter.
The rating system, each position has a
significance based on the powers an etc.
So in the rating system we
can have us five positions.
So the fifth position is 2 power of five,
but here.
In the binary coded decimal,
if you have another position here,
this position doesn't have the
significance of to the power of 5.
So that's why we call it.
This is not the radix system anymore.
They only have significance
up until four positions.
The other positions are just repeating
the positions, yeah? Yes, yes,
as long as we have four positions that
are in the base in the rating system, yes.
But more than four they are not
considered as the radix system.
So that's the difference.
So what are the other codes?
Or what are the binary codes?
We have a cannon.
We have access fee and we have this code.
This kind of I mean.
We're code minus 1 -- 2 four 8 and
we want to introduce them today.
So this is the next code called Aiken.
Aiken also wants to assign a code
to each digit of decimal system.
So all these codings are 4 decimal digits.
Binary coded decimal assigned based
on the binary numbers to each digit.
Aiken assigns the binary codes
based on this idea.
You can read about the this code in this URL.
It says that for each digit I
assume that I have four position,
the first is 2 to the power of 0,
the 2nd to the power of 1,
third is to the power of 2.
But the last one.
Instead of having the significance
of two to the power of three,
it has 2 to the power of.
One so the last one has
the significance of two.
That's a weird thing, but that there's
another amazing property for doing that.
This code, proposed by Howard Aiken Aiken.
And he was a physicist.
Uh, and he was again.
He was working on IBM.
So these labs are a huge
contribution to the computer systems.
Anne.
The way he proposes that if you
reduce the significance of the force
position to two instead of eight,
this property happens.
Up from zero until four the same,
so these are the 0 means that 0000
one is 0001280010 and three is 0011.
Four is 0100.
So far so good.
Based on the binary numbers for each digit.
But if you move to five.
You have to not before.
Not of the four Becoms Zero sorry 1011 and
this is the code for the decimal digit file.
If you want to see the code 46,
you have to do not on the
digital binary code for free.
Free is 0011, it becomes 1100 and
this is the code for Sex Anet.
Set the code for 9 for example
is the nut of the zero.
The Code 40 is here so it becomes 1111.
So you see that these coding are
not following the radix systems,
they are totally different.
And this is the look up table for that so.
40 We have 0411 up until four,
everything is the same,
but if you move to 55 is the not of four.
Anna touch up until 9.
So my question from you is
this if I reached 10,
what is the code for 10?
If I want to code it based on the Aikin.
Anybody?
So a can is very similar to BCD,
but the way it cause for each
digit is only there friend. So.
Correct, Anna, yes you have to
put the code of a can for one.
So what is the code for one?
This is the code for one.
So 000 one and then the code for 0.
0000 very similar for the BCD.
However, if I want to code for instance 26.
The code for 2.
What is the code for true?
I go to this look up Table 2.
Is this one SO0010 and the code 46?
If I go to the sixes here.
We have here, which is the not of the free.
So we put the code for six 1100.
So here's another example.
If you already have 185 now we want
to put it into a can code so they can
code for one is exactly the same,
but 48 is the nut of 1 and for the
file is the nut of the code 44.
And then we put the Code 4,
one and four and then apply
do not which becomes this.
This is the code for a 185 so binary coded
decimal binary number and a can code.
The next code is excess free.
Excess free basically basically says that.
Whenever you have a digit plus three and
then put the binary number for that.
So if you have 0.
Added with free,
which becomes free and then put the binary
number for free so it is start from 341,
becomes the binary number for four.
4/4 for instance,
it becomes the binary #4 seven,
and this is the binary number 47.
This is the way it codes for 9.
The binary code is.
9 + 3 which is 12.
And this is proposed by.
George stibitz
and again, if you want to out in our example,
if you want the code 185 to access three,
you have to basically add
each digit free first.
And then put the binary code for that.
So 1 + 3 becomes, four atrophy
becomes twelve, 5 + 3 becomes 8,
and then we put the binary code or
binary number for each of them.
And this is the binary code for that.
I sent your right.
You can we see why you can
have your own coding way?
Whatever look up table you can
design and you do the coding but.
They have nice properties and
they are some reason for that and
I'll explain to you now, yes.
Another code is this weird code and you
could ask me why they design such a code.
As you said,
why we don't have access one Access 2
or why we watch the reason for plus three,
so I'll expand that.
So one way of coding is this.
Basically it says that we have four position.
The last and the third position is the same,
but this the first position has
instead of having 2 to the power of 0.
It has the significance of minus one.
So any digit in that position
must be multiplied by minus one.
The second position has the minus two,
so any digit in that position
must be multiplied by minus 2.
So that's the kind of weird coding.
And here's the way.
If you do that, this is another very
similar property from the Aikin.
But the coding is different,
so this is the look up table for this code.
841 it's 2 -- 1 so the code 49.
Is this one?
The code for five is this one,
Anna cetera, so you see that for
zero then it goes to this number.
This code for one.
And then it goes to this 142 an etc.
So imagine we have 0111 in this code.
In order to make decoded,
what is the number the 1st digit
is the significance of minus one.
The 2nd digit is the significance
of minus two, this is.
2 to the power of 2. Four as usual,
and this is 2 to the power of 3/8.
So if you sum them,
it becomes minus 1 -- 2 -- 3.
Plus four becomes a. So let's see.
It becomes 4. Plus minus 2.
Plus minus one which is 1.
So.
As you can see here,
this is the decode for one.
So that's why that's the way
that you can decode from this
code to its original digit.
So let's back our example.
If you have 185 so 185,
this is the code for that.
So in the exam or in a the any
any when you design the coding,
usually you are given this table
so you have the look up table so
you can convert from the decimal
digit to its code and vice versa.
So don't worry about how we can do that.
This decoding and encoding.
But let's back to the question of
Tatiana an S on why we do have such a.
A weird I'm encoding.
They have some nice properties
and these are the properties.
Amazing property of these
codings, some of them is this.
The nines complement of the
decimal number becomes equal to
1 complement of the binary code.
That's very amazing.
So let's say it again.
As you can see here we are doing
encoding and decoding from a.
To be. And vice versa, but a are the
ages are all the decimal digits.
For instance 012 up until nine.
These are the decimal digits.
When we do encoding by these codes.
We bring it to binary system buys on this
look up table, so zero becomes into,
BCD becomes 000 and etc.
So we have. Binary code with.
Four positions for each digit.
But at the end of the day,
these digits are Euler zero or one.
The nice property of these codes
are that if you do the nice
compliment of the decimal digit.
It becomes exactly doing the ones
complement in the binary code.
So what was the one's complement?
We already know that the one's
complement of any binary number
or code is equal to not of that.
So it means that whenever you want to
calculate, for instance, you have the.
Eight in the source.
And the Big city code for a four eight.
Sorry, for instance,
the Aiken Code 48 is was the Aiken Code
48 that's back to the look up table.
For eight, we have this one.
So. 0111 this is the Aikin code.
48 as you can see here.
Now I want to do nice complements of eight.
What is the nice complement of eight?
We have to subtract from 8,
which becomes one.
But here you can simply do the one's
complement of this one's complement
of the binary number is the nut,
so it becomes 0. So it becomes 1000.
And this is the agent code for
one that's back and check that.
So they can code for one is. This one.
So you see the nines complement
of the decimal number becomes
the one's complement of Aiken.
This is very similar to the excess
free and also very similar to that
we have code minus one. One is 248.
So again, in this question,
for instance, if you want to
do the nines complement of 185.
The nice complement of 185 is
subtracting with 999, which is this.
But this calculation is very
hard if you already know that the
code is the code 485 in a can.
Which is this you can apply not on that,
or if you know the code for excess three,
you can apply nuts on top of this an attach.
And this is the nice compliment of that.
885 in these codes.
That's a nice property.
And again,
if you want to bring it back to its original,
you can do it and not on top of that.
This conversion is amazing for
the these codes, a connect three
and that minus 1 -- 2 four 8 code.
So why we need this?
The question is not why we need
to do an honest compliment.
And as a result,
we need such a code that have an
amazing property that not of the
binary code becomes the nines
complement of the decimal system.
The answer is that the original
computer systems was calculators,
so we haven't had such as complex
computer systems.
We only designed calculators as
the first computing systems.
For instance,
we want to do you have a Calculator.
We have number 123456 and etc and we
had a calculated that we want to do,
for instance, addition.
So we put one and then put the addition plus.
For instance, 10 or we want to do 9 -- 2.
All the normal,
I mean conventional calculators
does calculation in decimal system.
An IF we are in the 10s complement system.
Addition is in the 10s complement subtraction
in the 10s complement so very similar
to the twos complement binary system.
So if you build the calculators for
decimal digits based on the binary codes,
we can have the binary system
to do the calculation in.
Decimal systems based on
the 10s complement system.
That's why we need the binary codes
and that's why we need the nice
compliment as a not of them to make it.
These calculators very easy
to do the calculation.
Intense compliment tennis compliment
is equal to 9's complement plus one.
So nice compliment is equal
to the nut of these codes,
plus one that becomes very easy.
There is another code for doing the.
Uh, the coding between the decimal
digits and the binary codes,
which we call it Gray code.
So they can code excess 3
code and the minus 1 -- 2,
four eight they were coding for calculations
in 10s complement system for decimal
numbers in a normal calculation devices,
calculators. The Gray code,
however, is for transmission.
And here is the look up table for Gray code.
The great quote says that I don't have that
limit of the code so far up up until nine,
I can code any decimal number.
To any binary number coding and there is
no limit to the positions of the Gray code,
so Gray code is not limited
only to four positions.
You can continue with five,
6 or whatever decision,
so there's no limit to the Gray code and
the way they does decoding is like this.
So I'm going to go to the algorithm.
Basically,
it says that if you have the binary
number for your decimal number,
so the algorithm is this convert the
decimal number to binary number first.
And then do this.
Keep the first binary number.
And then from the other numbers,
simply do the exclusive or of
them so the 2nd digit gonna be
from the left to the right.
The exclusive or of the first highest
significant positions in the binary number.
And then these two.
And then these two.
And then this too.
So. Basically, again, let's back to here.
Whenever you have a decimal number,
you bring it to binary system by the
conversion algorithm and then went to
want to bring it to the Gray code.
Keep the 1st digit for the other
digits to the exclusive or of the
last two digits of the binary number.
So for instance, for the 2121 has
the binary number like this 10101,
so you keep the 1st digit.
This is the exclusive order of 1 and 0.
This one is the exclusive or of zero and one.
And this is the exclusive or of one and zero.
And this is the exclusive or of zero and one.
This is another coding method for Gray code,
so basically any decimal number goes to
binary number and then from the binary
number goes to the Gray code like this.
And what's the benefit of that?
Let's have a look at this example here.
From 20 to 21.
This is the cold grey quote for 20
and this is the great code for 21.
If you can see from one
number to the next number,
there is only one digit changes.
The other digits are the same in Gray code.
So let's see another example. For instance,
let's back to the look up table here.
1021 only one bit changes from one to two.
Only one it changes as you can see here.
For instance, from 14 to 15 in Gray code,
this is the code for 14,
and this is the code for 15.
Only one bits changes.
Why this is important?
And here's the reason.
Usually when you transmit data in a,
I mean between two systems.
If you your changes between
consequent numbers are very small,
there is a small chance for
noise to be in your data.
In a normal way, if you want to
transfer 7 and then right after that 8.
In a binary system or in a BCD code,
you have to.
This is the code for seven,
you have to change all the bits.
120120120 and zero to 1 so all debits
must be changed in order to just
728 transferred in a binary system.
However, before transmission,
if you convert to the Gray code.
The great quote for seven is this.
And the Gray code 48.
Is this an from 7 to 8?
Only one digit changes and this
is the digit that changes.
And that's amazing in three code.
So as a result, when you transmit
between 7 to 8 by great code,
there is a very small chance for
the noise to be in your data.
So if you already receive 0110100 and
then you expect to receive eight,
you only expect to change in one bit,
not in two or more bits.
So if you receive 1101.
You can say that that's not correct
because you expect to have only
one change in your new data,
so that's why great code actually is
very important in changing from analog
system to digital systems only need one
change for the consecutive numbers.
So we are running out of time, so these
are the codes that we introduced so far.
The other code, such as ASCII
code will continue next lecture.
But now we want to see how we can
design A circuit that does this coding.
So far we know the algorithm either based on
the look up table or based on the great code.
Now we want to design the
circuit that does this.
The actual physical circuit for that.
So we have some input decimal system.
We have some output in a binary coded way,
so we want to design A
circuit in another way.
We want to build the Calculator 1st
and then build the confidence system.
So we're done for today and.
Next lecture I'm going to explain
how we can design Circuit 4.
Conversion between these codes.
Yeah.
Ha ha ha. Uh no, no, no, I think,
but that's a good idea that I I I I,
I create some labs for doing these.
Codings, but uh, for this semester.
Uh oh, there's only one lab about the
Gray code, but for other codes, no,
we only design the circuit for that.
There is no programming lab for that now.
There's only one lab programming lab
for you to convert a binary decimal
number to Gray code. That's it,
but that's in the next two weeks not.
I mean, this week or next week.
And other persons.
No, no, no uh no no no.
Not a Calculator, just a converter.
So basically you have to write a program,
but this is not for this
or next week in the in.
I mean, in two or three weeks.
Your program you input a binary number,
for instance a binary number 65.
Sorry, the decimal number 65 and your program
should make it a code 465 in Gray code.
So basically you have to bring 65 into
base two and then you have to apply the
Gray algorithm to make it in the Gray code.
Uh, system, but that's not for this.
Or next week, yeah?
Well, about the Calculator Tatiana.
Usually in the Calculator we use the
BCD A can access three or this code.
But we want to design the circuit,
not a program for that.
Yes. It's not very difficult
because you can do the conversion
based on the this look up table
or you can follow the algorithm.
For instance, each digit plus three
and their binary code so it becomes
excess free for the A and you can
do from zero to four the same.
And then you go to the five.
For instance, you not on the floor, etc.
So either you do based on the
look up table or based on the
algorithm that I explained, yeah.
Any other questions?
So I'm going to be in the office hour,
so if you have any other questions I'm
happy to take your questions there.
So thank you everybody for today's
coming today and have a great day.
Thank you Tatiana. Take care. Bye.
I just stop recording.